What are the main challenges of parallel computing?
What are the benefits of parallel computing?
what are the different types of parallel computing?
What does a vector machine do that allows it gain a speed-up?
List the four categories of parallel processing architectures defined by Flynn's taxonomy?
Using an example describe the process of piplining and the potential benefits.
What is a Deadlock?
What is a Livelock?
List <some> ways to to ensure that a Deadlock does not occur.
Is there a way to prove whether or not a deadlock will or will not occur?
What is MUTEX?
In the Averaging Algorithm, how does each process determine its local time?
In the Berkeley Algorithm, how is the RTT taken into account?
What are the main differences between a Logical clock and a Physical clock?
In what cases would it be beneficial to use logical clocks instead of physical?
Does C(A) < C(B) => A -> B, Why or why not?
What problem of the Lamport sync does the Vector clock solve and how?
In the lecture notes, does the proceedure for VC advancement of p_i double increments for the V[i]?
What is a critical section?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of the centralised MUTEX algorithm?

What is a transaction?
Is there a difference between an atomic transaction and any other transaction?
What does the ACID acronym stand for? Give a sentence explaining each.
Why is it harder to maintain the ACID rules for nested transactions than it is for simple transactions?
What was the thing that was really like git???
List 3 typical concurrency algorithms.
What is the difference between concurrency and parallelism?
What is concurrency?
What are the benefits of using lock for concurrency control as opposed to other control mechanisms?
How can the locking algorithm be improved?
What are the two main types of conflict that can occur when dealing with shared resources?
Do the use of locks guarantee serialisability and why or why not?
What is the two-phase lock protocol?
what do you do if the transaction aborts after releasing some but not all of the locks in the two-phase lock protocol?
What the fuck is going on in that picture about cascading aborts?
What is the difference between the Strict and normal Two-Phase Locking Protocol?
How does timestamp concurrency control work?
How does timestamp concurrency control ensure the absence of deadlocks?
does timestamp concurrency control follow the ACID ruleset?
How does optimistic concurrency control work?
In slide 48 of week 5, how does the reading and the writing work?
Particularlly in the second example, is the slidemaker high?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of optimism? ;)
Give a description of the general concept of PVMs.
Is MPI a PVM and why?
What is a pvmd daemon?
What is the LINDA Model
Do you need shared physical memory in the LINDA model?
When would you use the LINDA models as opposed to the PVM?
List the 3 main OpenMP components?
With the use of a diagram, describe the fork join programming model usd in openMP.
Is it possible to perform nested paralellism with OpenMP
what are the differences between OpenMP and OpenMPI
What kind of consistency model is used in openMP?
What consequences does this yeild for the job of the programer.
How would you compile a program.c that uses openMP?
What's GP about GPGPU?


